# SHS2021_Statistics-DataAnalysis-Winter2022Co-op

## Description

During the Fall 2021 & Winter 2022 semesters, I worked as an Information Technology Assistant for the Centre for Educational & Information Technology (CEIT) at Douglas College for my Co-op work placement. My official role was that of a CEIT Student Support Assistant/Student Helping Students (SHS). I directly reported to the CEIT Service Desk. My role entailed various tasks and duties, yet the predominant purpose of my role was to provide support to Douglas College students with any issues/challenges related to educational technology through various modes of communication such as in-person interaction, email correspondance, video conferencing (i.e., Zoom & Microsoft Teams Meeting), and phone call. If I was unable to resolve the technological issue due to having lack of information, administrative rights, system clearance, or any other related reason, I would have to escalate the student's issue to the CEIT Service Desk. After any interaction with a student, it was standard procedure to record the date of interaction, time range of interaction, task category, escalation status, and the student name & contact method in a Excel Workbook that was shared with other SHSs and the Service Desk on Microsoft Teams.

During the Winter 2022 term, it was the first time Douglas College opened its doors to having in-person classes. That being said, I was interested to perform an exploratory data analysis of the 2021 SHS statistics data. It should be noted that the act of recording student interactions was introduced prior to the start of my work placement. The process of recording the student interactions was not standardized until the term prior to my hiring. Also, during my work terms, recording student interactions were prone to human errors and descrepencies. Thus, in order to perform the exploratory data analysis, I had to also perform rigorous data cleaning prior to calculating descriptive statistics, performing aggregations and constructing visualizations for the exploratory data analysis.

To perform this project at an optimal level, I utilized the **Python** programming language along with the **_Pandas_**, **_Numpy_**, **_Datetime_**, **_Scipy_**, **_Matplotlib_**, and **_Seaborn_** libraries. As I project completed during the Winter 2022 term, I was working in-person using a work station provided by CEIT Douglas College. Thus, the required tools and softwares to perform the exploratory data analysis were not pre-installed, and I did not have the administrative rights to install the technologies I required. Therefore, I utilized Jupyter Notebooks facilitated by Google Colaboratory (Google Colab) to perform the exploratory data analysis as it was accessible online through my personal Google Email account. Post-completion of the project, I made some minor adjustments to the Jupyter Notebooks using Microsoft Visual Studio Code for the purposing of sharing the codebase, aggregated datasets, and documentation to this GitHub repository. It should also be noted that Excel workbooks were the primary file formats for the raw, cleaned, and aggregated datasets. In addition, a spreadsheet was created with the help of some online tools and the Douglas College academic calenders to accurately find out the work days for the year of 2021. This was helpful during certain points of the project that required analysis of the date of interaction with the students.

## How the Project Works



## Important Note

The raw and cleaned datasets are not provided to protect the privacy of the students that required technological assistance from Douglas College CEIT Students Helping Students.
